Quickstart¶

Eager to get started? This page gives a good introduction in how to get started
with Requests.

First, make sure that:

Requests is installed

Requests is up-to-date

Let’s get started with some simple examples.

Making a request with Requests is very simple.

Begin by importing the Requests module:

Now, let’s try to get a webpage. For this example, let’s get GitHub’s public
timeline:

Now, we have a Response object called r. We can
get all the information we need from this object.

Requests’ simple API means that all forms of HTTP request are as obvious. For
example, this is how you make an HTTP POST request:

Nice, right? What about the other HTTP request types: PUT, DELETE, HEAD and
OPTIONS? These are all just as simple:

That’s all well and good, but it’s also only the start of what Requests can
do.

You often want to send some sort of data in the URL’s query string. If
you were constructing the URL by hand, this data would be given as key/value
pairs in the URL after a question mark, e.g. httpbin.org/get?key=val.
Requests allows you to provide these arguments as a dictionary of strings,
using the params keyword argument. As an example, if you wanted to pass
key1=value1 and key2=value2 to httpbin.org/get, you would use the
following code:

You can see that the URL has been correctly encoded by printing the URL:

Note that any dictionary key whose value is None will not be added to the
URL’s query string.

You can also pass a list of items as a value:

We can read the content of the server’s response. Consider the GitHub timeline
again:

Requests will automatically decode content from the server. Most unicode
charsets are seamlessly decoded.

When you make a request, Requests makes educated guesses about the encoding of
the response based on the HTTP headers. The text encoding guessed by Requests
is used when you access r.text. You can find out what encoding Requests is
using, and change it, using the r.encoding property:

If you change the encoding, Requests will use the new value of r.encoding
whenever you call r.text. You might want to do this in any situation where
you can apply special logic to work out what the encoding of the content will
be. For example, HTML and XML have the ability to specify their encoding in
their body. In situations like this, you should use r.content to find the
encoding, and then set r.encoding. This will let you use r.text with
the correct encoding.

Requests will also use custom encodings in the event that you need them. If
you have created your own encoding and registered it with the codecs
module, you can simply use the codec name as the value of r.encoding and
Requests will handle the decoding for you.

You can also access the response body as bytes, for non-text requests:

The gzip and deflate transfer-encodings are automatically decoded for you.

The br  transfer-encoding is automatically decoded for you if a Brotli library
like brotli or brotlicffi is installed.

For example, to create an image from binary data returned by a request, you can
use the following code:

There’s also a builtin JSON decoder, in case you’re dealing with JSON data:

In case the JSON decoding fails, r.json() raises an exception. For example, if
the response gets a 204 (No Content), or if the response contains invalid JSON,
attempting r.json() raises requests.exceptions.JSONDecodeError. This wrapper exception
provides interoperability for multiple exceptions that may be thrown by different
python versions and json serialization libraries.

It should be noted that the success of the call to r.json() does not
indicate the success of the response. Some servers may return a JSON object in a
failed response (e.g. error details with HTTP 500). Such JSON will be decoded
and returned. To check that a request is successful, use
r.raise_for_status() or check r.status_code is what you expect.

In the rare case that you’d like to get the raw socket response from the
server, you can access r.raw. If you want to do this, make sure you set
stream=True in your initial request. Once you do, you can do this:

In general, however, you should use a pattern like this to save what is being
streamed to a file:

Using Response.iter_content will handle a lot of what you would otherwise
have to handle when using Response.raw directly. When streaming a
download, the above is the preferred and recommended way to retrieve the
content. Note that chunk_size can be freely adjusted to a number that
may better fit your use cases.

Note

An important note about using Response.iter_content versus Response.raw.
Response.iter_content will automatically decode the gzip and deflate
transfer-encodings.  Response.raw is a raw stream of bytes – it does not
transform the response content.  If you really need access to the bytes as they
were returned, use Response.raw.

If you’d like to add HTTP headers to a request, simply pass in a dict to the
headers parameter.

For example, we didn’t specify our user-agent in the previous example:

Note: Custom headers are given less precedence than more specific sources of information. For instance:

Authorization headers set with headers= will be overridden if credentials
are specified in .netrc, which in turn will be overridden by the  auth=
parameter. Requests will search for the netrc file at ~/.netrc, ~/_netrc,
or at the path specified by the NETRC environment variable.
Check details in netrc authentication.

Authorization headers will be removed if you get redirected off-host.

Proxy-Authorization headers will be overridden by proxy credentials provided in the URL.

Content-Length headers will be overridden when we can determine the length of the content.

Furthermore, Requests does not change its behavior at all based on which custom headers are specified. The headers are simply passed on into the final request.

Note: All header values must be a string, bytestring, or unicode. While permitted, it’s advised to avoid passing unicode header values.

Typically, you want to send some form-encoded data — much like an HTML form.
To do this, simply pass a dictionary to the data argument. Your
dictionary of data will automatically be form-encoded when the request is made:

The data argument can also have multiple values for each key. This can be
done by making data either a list of tuples or a dictionary with lists
as values. This is particularly useful when the form has multiple elements that
use the same key:

There are times that you may want to send data that is not form-encoded. If
you pass in a string instead of a dict, that data will be posted directly.

For example, the GitHub API v3 accepts JSON-Encoded POST/PATCH data:

Please note that the above code will NOT add the Content-Type header
(so in particular it will NOT set it to application/json).

If you need that header set and you don’t want to encode the dict yourself,
you can also pass it directly using the json parameter (added in version 2.4.2)
and it will be encoded automatically:

Note, the json parameter is ignored if either data or files is passed.

Requests makes it simple to upload Multipart-encoded files:

You can set the filename, content_type and headers explicitly:

If you want, you can send strings to be received as files:

In the event you are posting a very large file as a multipart/form-data
request, you may want to stream the request. By default, requests does not
support this, but there is a separate package which does -
requests-toolbelt. You should read the toolbelt’s documentation for more details about how to use it.

For sending multiple files in one request refer to the advanced
section.

Warning

It is strongly recommended that you open files in binary
mode. This is because Requests may attempt to provide
the Content-Length header for you, and if it does this value
will be set to the number of bytes in the file. Errors may occur
if you open the file in text mode.

We can check the response status code:

Requests also comes with a built-in status code lookup object for easy
reference:

If we made a bad request (a 4XX client error or 5XX server error response), we
can raise it with
Response.raise_for_status():

But, since our status_code for r was 200, when we call
raise_for_status() we get:

All is well.

We can view the server’s response headers using a Python dictionary:

The dictionary is special, though: it’s made just for HTTP headers. According to
RFC 7230, HTTP Header names
are case-insensitive.

So, we can access the headers using any capitalization we want:

It is also special in that the server could have sent the same header multiple
times with different values, but requests combines them so they can be
represented in the dictionary within a single mapping, as per
RFC 7230:

A recipient MAY combine multiple header fields with the same field name
into one “field-name: field-value” pair, without changing the semantics
of the message, by appending each subsequent field value to the combined
field value in order, separated by a comma.

If a response contains some Cookies, you can quickly access them:

To send your own cookies to the server, you can use the cookies
parameter:

Cookies are returned in a RequestsCookieJar,
which acts like a dict but also offers a more complete interface,
suitable for use over multiple domains or paths.  Cookie jars can
also be passed in to requests:

By default Requests will perform location redirection for all verbs except
HEAD.

We can use the history property of the Response object to track redirection.

The Response.history list contains the
Response objects that were created in order to
complete the request. The list is sorted from the oldest to the most recent
response.

For example, GitHub redirects all HTTP requests to HTTPS:

If you’re using GET, OPTIONS, POST, PUT, PATCH or DELETE, you can disable
redirection handling with the allow_redirects parameter:

If you’re using HEAD, you can enable redirection as well:

You can tell Requests to stop waiting for a response after a given number of
seconds with the timeout parameter. Nearly all production code should use
this parameter in nearly all requests. Failure to do so can cause your program
to hang indefinitely:

Note

timeout is not a time limit on the entire response download;
rather, an exception is raised if the server has not issued a
response for timeout seconds (more precisely, if no bytes have been
received on the underlying socket for timeout seconds). If no timeout is specified explicitly, requests do
not time out.

In the event of a network problem (e.g. DNS failure, refused connection, etc),
Requests will raise a ConnectionError exception.

Response.raise_for_status() will
raise an HTTPError if the HTTP request
returned an unsuccessful status code.

If a request times out, a Timeout exception is
raised.

If a request exceeds the configured number of maximum redirections, a
TooManyRedirects exception is raised.

All exceptions that Requests explicitly raises inherit from
requests.exceptions.RequestException.

Ready for more? Check out the advanced section.